In the last video,
you saw the building blocks of a single
convolutional layer of a ConvNet.
Now let's go through a concrete example
of a deep convolutional neural network.
And this will give you some
practice with the notation that we
should use toward the end
of the last video as well.
Let's say you have an image, and
you want to do image classification,
or image recognition.
Where you want to take as input an image
x, and decide, is this a cat or not,
0 or 1.
So it's a neural classification problem,
so
let's build an example of a ConvNet
you could use for this task.
For the sake of this example,
I'm going to use a fairly small image,
let's say this image is 39 by 39 by 3.
This choice just makes some of
the numbers work out a bit better.
And so nh in layer 0 will be equal to nw,
height and width are equal to 39, and
the number of channels in
layer 0 is equal to 3.
Let's say the first layer uses a set
of 3 by 3 filters to detect features.
So f1 is Is equal to three, already f one,
is equal to three because we're
using three by three filters.
And let's say we're using a,
let's try the one and no padding,
so using a same convolution.
And let's say you have 10 filters.
Then, the activations
in this next layer of
the neural network will be 37 by 37 by 10.
And this 10 comes from the fact
that you use 10 filters,
and 37 comes from this formula,
n + 2p- f/s + 1, right?
And I guess you have 39 + 0- 3 / 1 + 1,
that's equal to 37, so
that's why the output is 37 by 37.
It's a valid convolution,
and that's the output size.
So in our notation,
you would have nH1 = nW1 = 37.
And nC1 = 10, so nC1 is equal to
the number of filters
from the first layer.
So this becomes the dimension of
the activation at the first layer.
Let's say you now have another
convolutional layer, and
let's say this time you
use 5 by 5 filters.
So in our notation, f(2) at the next layer
of the neural network is equal to 5.
And let's say use a stride of 2 this time,
and
maybe you have no padding,
and say, 20 filters.
So then the output of this,
Will be another volume,
this time it'll be 17 by 17 by 20.
Notice that because you're
now using a stride of 2,
the dimension has shrunk much faster.
37 by 37 has gone down in size by
slightly more a factor of 2, to 17 by 17.
And because you're using 20 filters,
the number of channels now is 20.
So at its activation,
a2 would be that dimension,
and so nH2 = nW2 = 17,
and nC2 = 20.
All right, let's apply one
last convolutional layer, so
let's say that you use a 5 by 5 filter
again, and again a stride of 2.
So if you do that, I'll skip the math,
you end up with a 7 by 7, and
let's say you use 40 filters.
No padding, 40 filters,
you end up with 7 by 7 by 40.
So now what you've done is
taken your 39 by 39 by 3 image,
and computed your 7 by 7 by
40 features for this image.
And then finally,
what's commonly done is, if you take this
7 by 7 by 40,
7 times 7 times 40 is actually 1960.
And so
we continuously take this volume, and
flatten it, or unroll it, into 1960 units.
Just flatten it out into a vector,
and then feed this
to a logistically rationed unit,
or soft max unit.
Depending on whether you're trying
to recognize cat or no cat, or
trying to recognize any one
of k different objects.
And then just have this give the final
predicted output for the neural network.
And so just be clear, this last step
is just taking all of these numbers,
all 1960 numbers, and
unrolling them into a very long vector.
So then you just have one long
vector to feed into soft max,
until it's just a regression, in order to
make a prediction for the final output.
So this would be a pretty
typical example of a ConvNet.
A lot of the work in designing
a convolutional neural
net is selecting
hyperparameters like these.
Deciding what's the filter size,
what's the stride, what's the padding,
and how many filters you use.
And both later this week as well as next
week, we'll give some suggestions and
some guidelines on how
to make these choices.
But for now, maybe one thing to take
away from this is that, as you go deeper
in the neural network, typically you
start out with larger images, 39 by 39.
And then the height and
width will stay the same for awhile,
and gradually trend down as you
go deeper in your networks.
It's gone from 39 to 37 to 17 to 40,
excuse me, so
it's gone from 39 to 37 to 17 to 7.
Whereas the number of channels
will generally increase,
it's gone from 3 to 10 to 20 to 40.
And you see this general trend in
a lot of other convolutional neural
networks as well.
And we'll give more guidelines about
how to design these parameters in
later videos.
But you've now seen your first example
of a convolutional neural network,
or ConvNet for short.
So congratulations on that, and
it turns out that in a typical ConvNet,
there are usually three types of layers.
One is the convolutional layer, and often
we'll often donate that as a conv layer,
that's what we've been using
in the previous network.
It turns out that there's two other common
types of layers that you haven't seen yet,
but we'll talk about in
the next couple videos.
One is called a pooling layer,
often I'll call this pool, and
the last is a fully connected layer,
called FC.
And although it's possible
to design a pretty good
neural network using just
convolutional layers.
Most neural networks architectures will
also have a few pooling layers, and
a few fully connected layers.
Fortunately, pooling layers and
fully connected layers are a bit simpler
than convolutional layers to define.
So we'll do that quickly in the next two
videos, and then you have a sense of
all of the most common types of layers
in a convolutional neural network.
And you'll be able to put together
even more powerful networks
than the one we just saw.
So congrats again on seeing your first
full convolutional neural network.
We'll also talk later in this week
about how to train these networks.
But first, let's talk briefly about
pooling and fully connected layers.
And then training these,
we'll be using back propagation,
which you're already familiar with.
But in the next video,
I'll just quickly go over how to implement
a pooling layer for your ConvNet.